OK let's move on to our next character now this character is made out of very simple shapes.
And we want to keep him very simple overall.
So we're going to make him out of solid colors without really any shadowing at all.
So let's go ahead and let's get started.
So the first thing we're going to do is we're going to select both our layers we put the sketches and
we're going to put them into a folder.
And we'll call this for their sketch.
Next we're going to do is we're going to bring down the opacity on that folder.
About 50 percent.
Now let's add a new layer and we'll go ahead and zoom in on our document then.
Let's switch over to the Lasso tool and let's cut out the shape of his mask.
Great.
Now let's fill his mask in with a brown.
So we're going to come over to our color picker and the color range that it's in right now is probably
good but we want it to be a little bit lighter.
Probably somewhere in there.
OK.
Let's go ahead and let's fill that in with our fill tool awesome.
Next what we're going to do is we're going to add a new layer on top of that.
And then we're going to make that into a layer clipping mask.
Now let's grab our light brown and let's make it even lighter out there should be good.
And I'm going to move more towards the yellow side
and we'll switch over to our brush and making sure we have a hard edge in the paint and the edge of
his mask like so next.
Let's create another clipping mask.
Will drag that to the top.
Now let's re select this brown and then we're going to create a darker version of it.
There should be good.
OK then switching back over to our brush tool.
We're going to paint the mask lines.
Now in order to see our sketch better I'm going to turn down the opacity on our bottom layer and now
we can see through all of that and see your sketch.
Now let's come back to our top layer.
I will go ahead and paint in those lines.
Great.
Now we can turn the opacity back up and see how that looks.
Awesome.
Next let's turn down the opacity again so we can see our sketch then we're going to add a new layer
to the very top.
This doesn't have to be a clipping mask.
Outlets switch over to our circular marquee tool and we're going to make a circular selection about
the size of his eye.
Next let's fill that in with a dark green
somewhere around there should work the myths fill that in.
Next we're going to create a new layer on top of that and we're going to select a lighter green color
somewhere around here should be good.
Well OK then let's fill that in.
Now unselect out of your shape then let's use the Transform Tool resize the circle.
Resize it and keep it's proportions hold down shift and that'll keep it in a perfect circle.
Well there should be good will.
Enter ben using the grabbing move tool and the arrow keys on the keyboard are going to nudge this over
till we get it about in the center.
Next what we're going to do is we're going to switch over to our research tool.
Now let's bring down the size until it's about the size of his iris.
All right.
That looks good.
And now let's go ahead and make a dot and erase out that space.
Now I'm going to make it a little bit bigger.
All right.
That looks better.
Now I want to make sure that it's kind of more to the left side of the screen just because when we copy
this I over to this side I'm going to flip it so it looks like his eyes looking in the other direction
and just kind of give him that goofy look.
Next I'm going to come over to my light green and I'm going to create an even lighter green OK.
Then switching back over to my brush tool and enlarging the size I'm going to go ahead and make a spot
in there.
All right.
Now we have one eye done.
Let's go ahead and let's merge those two layers.
Now there is one layer and we're going to select it with the marquee tool.
Copy and paste let's drag that over to the other I now I want to use the transform tool.
Then right click on the eye and come down to flip horizontally.
That's going to flip it so his eyes looking in the other direction then that's resizes just a little
bit should be a good way.
Enter make sure it's in the right position.
Great.
Now let's just merge those two eyes together to make things clearer.
Next let's add a new layer then let's bring the opacity back up on our bottom layer so we can see everything.
It's looking good.
Now I want to create the mouth and the eyebrows and the same brown just darker.
So we're going to select this broom then we're going to darken it.
But there should be good.
OK.
Next let's bring the opacity back down on our bottom layer.
Then we'll come up to our top layer and out a new layer above that and let's switch over to our brush
tool and we're just going to paint in these eyebrows and this mouth.
And again just go ahead and use my race tool if I want to reshape the shape that I created.
Now let's turn the bottom layer back on so we can see it.
All right it's looking good.
Now I'm going to add just a little bit of shadow to give these eyebrows and this mouth some definition.
So coming back up to that layer and then darkening my brown and I'm going to shrink my brush size down.
I'm just going to follow along the top of his mouth like so then I'm going to fill in this corner of
his mouth was chateau
awesome.
Now let's add a shadow to the bottom of his eyebrows.
All right.
Looks good next.
Let's put all of his mask into a folder.
So we'll select all the way down to the bottom layer and then put them into a folder and let's call
that Fuller mask.
Now let's add a new layer underneath our mask folder and we're going to use this to create the ear.
So let's grab a bronze skin tone.
Someone there should do it.
OK.
And then we're just going to paint that ear I'm using our brush to
like so Next let's create a new layer above that then we're going to select a gray color should do and
then we're just going to use the lasso tool to trace out this feather.
Next we're going to use the lasso tool to cut out some niches into our feathered
just like we did with the chips on the sword.
Now this is just to make it look more like a feather.
Awesome.
That should be good.
Next we're going to grab a darker gray about there should be good.
And using our brush tool and bringing the size down we're going to go ahead and make the stem whips
make the stem of our feather like so now that we've done that.
Let's add a new layer above this feather next.
Let's add a new layer above this one and we're going to make it into a clipping mask.
We've done that.
Let's make a copy of both these layers so we'll select both of them and then copy them by hitting control
J.
Recommand J.
On a Mac then let's use the grab and move tool to move our copy.
All right.
Now let's come back to our original clipping mask and we're going to fill it in with the color blue.
So let's come up to blue and somewhere around there should be good.
All right.
OK.
And just using our fill tool we'll go ahead and fill that in.
Next we're going to change it's a layer type to multiply which is up here at the top.
I hit that.
Awesome.
Now let's work on our second feather.
So we'll come up to the second clipping mask and then we're going to fill that with the color red.
So somewhere in there should be good.
Let's do saturated.
Just a little bit.
OK.
And let's fill that in.
Next we're going to also change this the layers type to multiply.
Great.
Next let's add these cool little stripes that we put in our sketch.
So I'm going to darken our color to a pretty dark version of it.
OK.
Then using our brush tool will go ahead and we'll brush in those stripes.
Now let's paint them in and sort of a fashion.
Now let's go ahead and let's merge these two layers together.
So the feather is one layer.
So now that's one layer.
Let's do the same with our blue feather.
So that's one layer.
Great.
Now let's grab our red layer and let's move it into position like so now we can go ahead and copy that
feather by selecting it with the marquee tool and pasting it
and then we can use the transform tool.
To rotate it in position
next.
Let's come back down to our blue feather and let's select that with the marquee tool and we'll copy
and paste and put that into position.
So like so paste it one last time bring it into position use the Transform Tool to rotate it.
We're also going to right click it and come down to flip vertically That way the feather won't have
the patterns on the same exact side as the other one.
Let's turn it.
So now you can see that little snippet is on the right side of the feather rather than the left side
of the feather.
OK.
So get that into position.
Now let's go ahead and let's merge all those feather layers.
So we'll select all of them.
Make sure you don't select the ear and we're going to go ahead and merge those.
So now the feathers are one layer.
Now let's go ahead and let's put the feathers and that year into their own folder.
We're going to call this full their feathers
awesome.
So we just finished the entire head of our character.
That was pretty quick.
It just goes to show you that you can create game artwork pretty fast if you just put some practice
in.
All right.
And the next lecture will go ahead and we'll move on to creating his body.